
# Building ORE Python Wrappers on Posix Systems (e.g. MacOS and Linux)

This tutorial explains how to build and run the ORE wrapper and wheel on Posix
systems such as MacOS and Linux.  The commands listed here were tested on
Ubuntu and you will likely have to modify the commands slightly on other
systems.

[Back to tutorials index](tutorials.00.index.md)

# Prerequisites

Before building ORE and ORESWIG, you must install **boost**.  The ORE project
currently uses boost version 1.72 - any version of boost equal to or greater
than that ought to work.  You also need to install **swig** and **cmake**.

## ZLib

ORE supports zlib for compressed output.  Zlib support is optional - if you
want to enable it, you must install Zlib.  You must also ensure that your copy
of `boost::iostreams` is zlib-enabled.  The instructions for compiling
`boost::iostreams` with zlib support can be found
[here](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_82_0/libs/iostreams/doc/index.html).

# Source code

You need to grab the source code for ORE and ORESWIG, e.g:

    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/OpenSourceRisk/Engine.git ore
    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/OpenSourceRisk/ORE-SWIG.git oreswig

# Environment Variables

For purposes of this tutorial, we are going to create a series of environment
variables, prefixed with `DEMO_`, pointing to the locations of the
prerequisites.  Once you have installed all of the prerequisites listed above,
set the following environment variables pointing to the relevant directories,
e.g:

    DEMO_BOOST_INC=/home/repos/boost/install/include
    DEMO_BOOST_LIB=/home/repos/boost/install/lib
    DEMO_ORE_DIR=/home/repos/oreplus/ore
    DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR=/home/repos/oreswig
    DEMO_ZLIB_ROOT=/home/repos/zlib/zlib-1.2.13 (optional)

# Build ORE

## Configure ORE

Below are the commands to configure the ORE build using cmake.  If you do not
require compression, then you can omit the `ZLIB_ROOT` environment variable,
and, when running cmake, you can omit flag `-DORE_USE_ZLIB=ON`.

    cd $DEMO_ORE_DIR
    mkdir build
    cd $DEMO_ORE_DIR/build
    export BOOST_INCLUDEDIR=$DEMO_BOOST_INC
    export BOOST_LIBRARYDIR=$DEMO_BOOST_LIB
    export ZLIB_ROOT=%DEMO_ZLIB_ROOT%
    cmake .. -DCMAKE_POSITION_INDEPENDENT_CODE=ON -DORE_BUILD_DOC=OFF -DORE_BUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF -DORE_BUILD_TESTS=OFF -DORE_BUILD_APP=OFF -DQL_BUILD_BENCHMARK=OFF -DQL_BUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF -DQL_BUILD_TEST_SUITE=OFF -DBoost_NO_WARN_NEW_VERSIONS=1 -DBoost_NO_SYSTEM_PATHS=1 -DORE_USE_ZLIB=ON -DQL_ENABLE_SESSIONS=ON

## Build ORE

Below are the commands to build ORE.

    cd $DEMO_ORE_DIR/build
    cmake --build .

# Build ORESWIG

There are two ways to build ORESWIG: using **cmake**, or using **setup.py**.
With cmake, you can generate the wrapper.  With setup.py you can generate both
the wrapper and the wheel.

## Build ORESWIG Using CMake

### Configure ORESWIG

Below are the commands to configure the ORESWIG build using cmake.  If you do
not require compression, then you can omit the `ZLIB_ROOT` environment
variable, and, when running cmake, you can omit flag `-DORE_USE_ZLIB=ON`.

    cd $DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python
    mkdir build
    cd $DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python/build
    export BOOST_INCLUDEDIR=$DEMO_BOOST_INC
    export BOOST_LIBRARYDIR=$DEMO_BOOST_LIB
    export ZLIB_ROOT=$DEMO_ZLIB_ROOT
    cmake .. -DORE=$DEMO_ORE_DIR -DORE_USE_ZLIB=ON

### Build ORESWIG

Below are the commands to build ORESWIG.

    cd $DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python/build
    cmake --build .

### Use the wrapper

    cd $DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python/Examples
    export PYTHONPATH=$DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python/build
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$DEMO_ORE_DIR/build/OREAnalytics/orea:$DEMO_ORE_DIR/build/OREData/ored:$DEMO_ORE_DIR/build/QuantExt/qle:$DEMO_ORE_DIR/build/QuantLib/ql:$DEMO_BOOST_LIB
    python3 swap.py

When you run example script `ore.py`, it writes to directory `Output` a number
of output files, including `cube.dat`.  If you have compression enabled, as
described above, then `cube.dat` is generated in compressed format (.tar.gz).
If not then `cube.dat` is generated as a flat (plain text) file.

## Build ORESWIG Using setup.py

### Build ORESWIG

Below are the commands to build the ORESWIG Python wrapper and wheel using
setup.py.  If you do not require compression, then you can omit the
`ORE_USE_ZLIB` environment variable.

    cd $DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python
    export BOOST_INC=$DEMO_BOOST_INC
    export BOOST_LIB=$DEMO_BOOST_LIB
    export ORE=$DEMO_ORE_DIR
    export ORE_USE_ZLIB=1
    python3 setup.py wrap
    python3 setup.py build
    python3 -m build --wheel

### Use the wrapper

    cd $DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python/Examples
    export PYTHONPATH=$DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python/build/lib.linux-x86_64-3.10/ORE
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$DEMO_ORE_DIR/build/OREAnalytics/orea:$DEMO_ORE_DIR/build/OREData/ored:$DEMO_ORE_DIR/build/QuantExt/qle:$DEMO_ORE_DIR/build/QuantLib/ql:$DEMO_BOOST_LIB
    python3 swap.py

### Use the wheel

    cd $DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python/Examples
    python3 -m venv env1
    . ./env1/bin/activate
    pip install $DEMO_ORE_SWIG_DIR/OREAnalytics-SWIG/Python/dist/osre-1.8.9.1-cp310-cp310-linux_x86_64.whl
    python3 swap.py
    deactivate
    rm -rf env1

